[MUSIC]
We'll talk in this lecture about
controlling a device through the Internet,
controlling a Raspberry Pi based
device through the Internet.
So controlling over the Internet.
This is sort of a central thing,
central idea in the Internet of things,
devices, is accessing some
device through the Internet.
Controlling a device over the Internet,
it's the Internet of things,
it's interesting.
They have a lot of applications.
Just to name a few,
home automation, right?
Maybe you want to automate your home,
control a device in your home remotely.
Telemedicine, right?
Maybe you want to control with a knife,
a hand, a surgical device remotely.
Things like this.
So controlling over the Internet.
This is part of the Internet of things
idea, and we want to be able to do that.
And now that we've talked about
making clients and servers,
socket based clients and servers,
we have the tools to start doing that.
Now so we'll just mock up
a tiny one right here, but
you can add features to
this if you want to.
So the idea here is we're going to
say look, we want to send commands to
a Raspberry PI and then have the Raspberry
Pi do something in the real world.
Now maybe that something is turning
off and on a light in your house or
moving a knife across somebody's vein or
something like this.
But that's the idea.
You want to send commands
To Raspberry Pi remotely and
then Raspberry Pi does something.
Now notice that, even though we're not
going to to do this in this example,
you can send data the other way, too.
Sensor data can go from
the Raspberry Pi to your remote device.
You can also do that.
We're not doing that.
We're just doing the one sided way,
send controlled data to the Raspberry Pi
device over the internet.
Okay, so we're going to make
a really simple system,
an Internet controlled LED, just a light.
And what's going to happen is you've got
some device, it looks like a little cell
phone picture but
it could be any device that is networked.
So, it goes through the network.
My little cloud is my
symbol of the network.
So, it goes through the network, the
internet, to your Raspberry Pi, sending
a command to your Raspberry Pi and then
it tells it to turn the LED off or on.
The Raspberry Pi is wired
directly to the LED.
And it turns it off or
on according to the remote commands.
So that's what we want to do.
It's not hard to write.
So the LED turns it off and
on by remote commands from some device.
An on message literally ON, if that's
the contents of the message being sent,
then the LED will go on and
an off message will turn the LED off.
So that's all we want to do right now.
Now notice that once we do this we can
expand this to do anything based on any
kind of message but as a demo we're
just going to do this simple thing.
So, basically what's happening in this is,
that the Raspberry Pi is a server, right?
It's sitting there waiting for
a request, on and off, are two requests.
And some client is going to connect
to the Raspberry Pi server, and
if the Raspberry Pi sees that the request
isn't on, it will turn the LED on.
So the LED itself is the resource
that the server is protecting.
Since the Raspberry Pi is acting as
a server, we're going to basically
take that generic server code that we
just looked at in a previous lecture and
we're going to modify it ever so
slightly to control this LED.
And it's really a very small modification.
So here's how we modify it.
We go,
this isn't the whole server program, but
this is the main core of it,
that loop where it accepts connections and
then processes, receives data,
processes it, and sends the results back.
So we're going to modify
that loop just a little bit.
So at the top line
there's an infinite loop.
We say we accept the connection.
We get this connection back.
The next line we receive data.
So we say conn.
receive data, receive request.
Now in our model this request is
going to be one of two things.
It's going to be either an on or an off.
Right, it's going to be the word on or
the word off.
So, if there's no data it
breaks the connection, right.
But if there's data, if the data equals
on, then GPIO.output 13 equals true,
13 true, which if you remember from
previous lectures GPIO.output set,
in this case, it'll set pin 13 to true,
to high, right?
Now I'm assuming here that
pin 13 is wired to the LED.
In order for this to work,
we have to take in the LED,
wire it in a resistor to pin 13 which
we've done in previous modules, right?
So we wire it to pin 13, GPIO.output(13,
true) will turn that LED on.
Then if data equals off,
then it's going to to say it's going to to
take pin 13 to turn it off, to make it
false, which will turn the LED off.
And that's really the only change
in the code that we have to make.
Now, notice that the received data has
to be compared to the commands, right?
So we say if data equals on, you compare
it to on, you compare it to off.
Now notice that, here's a funny thing.
When I say data equals on,
I don't just say data equals on,
I say data equals b on.
And data equals b off.
Why did I do this?
That's because, and I'm not sure why this
is the case, that's because this data,
the result returned from the receive
function is not a string.
Okay?
It's what's called a byte array.
A byte array is actually,
it's an array, a list of bytes, okay?
Which is, actually in C strangely enough,
a byte array is equivalent to a string.
But in Python those are actually
different structures.
So different types of objects.
So what you need to do is you put
that B in front of the string.
So on, when I put on, say,
right there I say B on.
But on in quote?
That's a string.
But in order to compare it to data,
data's a byte array,
I have to turn that
string into a byte array.
The simple shorthand for
turning a string into a byte array
is putting a b in front of it.
So if you say b on, that is the byte array
which is equivalent to the string on.
And then b off is the byte array which
is equivalent to the string off.
So I need to convert it
into a byte array just so
I can compare it to the data
because the data's a byte array.
But other than that this
is a very small change and
this should do the task,
this should serve the need.
And so when it receives on
it will turn the LED on,
when it receives off it will turn it off.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]